posts/[markdown]/0.md, before:

---
title: Feature preview
date: "2024-12-13"
tags:
  - programming
description: Markdown feature demo and app usage description
published: true
---

# Table of Contents

<br>

The `remark-toc` extension auto-generates a table of contents based on a case
insensitive Regex match of the heading.  
You can either use `contents`, `table of contents` or just `toc`.

---

# Directory structure
All posts live in the `posts/` directory in the root of the project, this directory
is explicitly allowed to be read by vite.  
Articles created in markdown files can live under the root `posts/` directory, or
be nested inside a folder (for better organization for assets like images).
<br>

You can also add multiple articles to a "collection" (or group), all you need to
do is nest them inside a folder with a specific syntax. The folder name should be
wrapped in square brackets, then the parser will add a special label to the post,
which will be displayed both on the post listing and on the article itself.
<br>

Example directory structure:
```plaintext
posts/
├── [a_collection]/
│   ├── post1.md
│   ├── post2.md
│   └── post3.md
├── silly/
│   ├── cats.md
│   └── kitty.png
└── how_to_bake_bread.md
```

---

Headings
========
Each heading has a permalink

# h1 heading
## h2 heading
### h3 heading
#### h4 heading
##### h5 heading
###### h6 heading

---

Inline styles
=============
The ^superscript^ and ~subscript~ functionality is provided by the `remark-sub-super`
extension, and the ~~deleted~~ and ++inserted++ functionality by `remark-ins`

<br>

This text is **bold**, *italic*, ~~deleted~~ and ++inserted++  
You can also use underscores for __bold__ or _italic_ text.

Here is a `code` element, ^sup^ and ~sub~

---

Lists
=====

#### Unordered

+ Create a list by starting a line with `+`, `-`, or `*`
    - Sub-lists are made by indenting 4 spaces:
        * Very easy!

#### Ordered

1. Look at me I'm ordered!
    - You can also mix and match
2. Buy bread

1. You can use sequential numbers...
1. ...or keep all the numbers as `1.`

#### Or even start numbering with offset

57. foo
1. bar

---

Links
=====

[I'm an inline-style link](https://example.com)  
[I'm an inline-style link with title](https://example.com "Example page")

[I'm a reference-style link][Arbitrary case-insensitive reference text]  
[You can use numbers for reference-style link definitions][1]

Or leave it empty and use the [link text itself].

<br>

- Just paste links directly in the document like this: https://example.com.
    - URLs in angle brackets work too <https://example.com>
- An email address: fake.email@email.com.

[arbitrary case-insensitive reference text]: https://www.mozilla.org
[1]: https://example.com
[link text itself]: https://example.com

---

Tables
======

Colons can be used to align columns.

| Tables        | Are           | Cool  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
| col 3 is      | right-aligned | $1600 |
| col 2 is      | centered      |   $12 |
| zebra stripes | are neat      |    $1 |

Markdown | Less | Pretty
--- | --- | ---
*Still* | `renders` | **nicely**
1 | 2 | 3

| First Header  | Second Header |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| Content Cell  | Content Cell  |
| Content Cell  | Content Cell  |

| Command | Description |
| --- | --- |
| git status | List all new or modified files |
| git diff | Show file differences that haven't been staged |

| Command | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `git status` | List all *new or modified* files |
| `git diff` | Show file differences that **haven't been** staged |

| Left-aligned | Center-aligned | Right-aligned |
| :---         |     :---:      |          ---: |
| git status   | git status     | git status    |
| git diff     | git diff       | git diff      |

| Name     | Character |
| ---      | ---       |
| Backtick | `         |
| Pipe     | \|        |

---

Typographic replacements
========================

| Markdown       | Result       |
| -------------- | ------------ |
| `(tm)`         | ™            |
| `(c)`          | ©            |
| `(r)`          | ®            |
| `c/o`          | ℅            |
| `+/-`          | ±            |
| `-->`          | →            |
| `<--`          | ←            |
| `<-->`         | ↔            |
| `=/=`          | ≠            |
| `1/4, etc.`    | ¼, etc.      |
| `1st 2nd etc.` | 1st 2nd etc. |

---

Checklists
==========

- [ ] Task 1
- [x] Task 2
- [ ] **Look**, `i` *can* ^also^ ~~have~~ ++styling++
- [x] Buy bread

---

Footnotes
=========
This is enabled by the `remark-footnotes@2.0` extension.

Footnote 1 link[^first]  
Footnote 2 link[^second]  
Duplicated footnote reference[^second]

I am a very handsome boy^[citation&nbsp;needed]^

[^first]: Footnotes **can have markup**

    and multiple paragraphs.

[^second]: Footnote text.

---

Blockquotes
===========

> Blockquotes are very handy in email to emulate reply text.
> This line is part of the same quote.

Quote break.

> Blockquotes can also be nested...
>> ...by using additional greater-than signs right next to each other...
> > > ...or with spaces between arrows.
>
> > It can also have code blocks in them:
>
> ```python
> if __name__ == "__main__":
>   print("Hello, World!")
> ```

---

Code and Syntax Highlighting
============================
The code block functionality is provided by `shiki` which integrates directly with `MDsveX`.

<br>

#### Example CSS code
```css
@font-face {
    font-family: Chunkfive; src: url('Chunkfive.otf');
}

body, .usertext {
    color: #F0F0F0; background: #600;
    font-family: Chunkfive, sans;
}

@import url(print.css);
@media print {
    a[href^=http]::after {
        content: attr(href)
    }
}
```

#### Meta properties
Thanks to transformers from the `@shikijs/transformers` package, we can add special
features by passing meta properties to code blocks.

```markdown
\`\`\`js {1}
let a = "This code block will have highlighted lines";
\`\`\`

\`\`\`js /words/
let b = "This code block will have highlighted words";
\`\`\`

\`\`\`js
let b = "This code block will have highlighted words";  // [\!code --]
let c = "This code block will have highlighted diff changes";  // [\!code ++]
\`\`\`

\`\`\`js title="JavaScript sample"
let d = "This code block will have a title";
\`\`\`
```

Working example:
```js {2-4,7} /catch/ title="hello"
function $initHighlight(block, cls) {
    try {
        if (cls.search(/\bno\-highlight\b/) != -1)
            return process(block, true, 0x0F) +
                ` class="${cls}"`;
    } catch (e) {
        /* handle exception */
    }
    for (var i = 0 / 2; i < classes.length; i++) {
        if (checkCondition(classes[i]) === undefined)  // [!code ++]
            console.log('undefined'); // [!code --]
    }
}

export $initHighlight;
```

---

Images
======

Here's a logo (hover to see the title text):

Inline-style:
![alt text](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/raw/master/src/common/images/icon48.png "Logo Title Text 1")

Reference-style:
![alt text][logo]

[logo]: https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/raw/master/src/common/images/icon48.png "Logo Title Text 2"

![Kitten](https://loremflickr.com/640/360)
![Kitten](https://loremflickr.com/440/360 "A verry cute cat")

Like links, Images also have a footnote style syntax  
With a reference later in the document defining the URL location

![Alt text][id]

[id]: https://loremflickr.com/240/380  "Another totally bonkers cat"

Relative Images
----------------------

Thanks to a custom `assets/[slug]` route, which grabs all images living in the
posts directory and serves them under a single path, we can now prepend all nested
images in the same directory as the post with `/assets/`!

![puter with code on em](/assets/fotis-fotopoulos-DuHKoV44prg-unsplash.jpg "src: https://unsplash.com/photos/DuHKoV44prg")

You can use `.png`, `.jpg` or `.gif` files.

![cat licking camera](/assets/cta_lcik_camera.gif)

Commit message:

feat: Alt text for post card cover images

posts/[markdown]/0.md, after:

---
title: Feature preview
date: "2024-12-13"
tags:
  - programming
description: Markdown feature demo and app usage description
published: true
coverImageAlt: Markdown logo on dark blue background with floating symbols and emojis arout it
---

# Table of Contents

<br>

The `remark-toc` extension auto-generates a table of contents based on a case
insensitive Regex match of the heading.  
You can either use `contents`, `table of contents` or just `toc`.

---

# Directory structure
All posts live in the `posts/` directory in the root of the project, this directory
is explicitly allowed to be read by vite.  
Articles created in markdown files can live under the root `posts/` directory, or
be nested inside a folder (for better organization for assets like images).
<br>

You can also add multiple articles to a "collection" (or group), all you need to
do is nest them inside a folder with a specific syntax. The folder name should be
wrapped in square brackets, then the parser will add a special label to the post,
which will be displayed both on the post listing and on the article itself.
<br>

Example directory structure:
```plaintext
posts/
├── [a_collection]/
│   ├── post1.md
│   ├── post2.md
│   └── post3.md
├── silly/
│   ├── cats.md
│   └── kitty.png
└── how_to_bake_bread.md
```

---

Headings
========
Each heading has a permalink

# h1 heading
## h2 heading
### h3 heading
#### h4 heading
##### h5 heading
###### h6 heading

---

Inline styles
=============
The ^superscript^ and ~subscript~ functionality is provided by the `remark-sub-super`
extension, and the ~~deleted~~ and ++inserted++ functionality by `remark-ins`

<br>

This text is **bold**, *italic*, ~~deleted~~ and ++inserted++  
You can also use underscores for __bold__ or _italic_ text.

Here is a `code` element, ^sup^ and ~sub~

---

Lists
=====

#### Unordered

+ Create a list by starting a line with `+`, `-`, or `*`
    - Sub-lists are made by indenting 4 spaces:
        * Very easy!

#### Ordered

1. Look at me I'm ordered!
    - You can also mix and match
2. Buy bread

1. You can use sequential numbers...
1. ...or keep all the numbers as `1.`

#### Or even start numbering with offset

57. foo
1. bar

---

Links
=====

[I'm an inline-style link](https://example.com)  
[I'm an inline-style link with title](https://example.com "Example page")

[I'm a reference-style link][Arbitrary case-insensitive reference text]  
[You can use numbers for reference-style link definitions][1]

Or leave it empty and use the [link text itself].

<br>

- Just paste links directly in the document like this: https://example.com.
    - URLs in angle brackets work too <https://example.com>
- An email address: fake.email@email.com.

[arbitrary case-insensitive reference text]: https://www.mozilla.org
[1]: https://example.com
[link text itself]: https://example.com

---

Tables
======

Colons can be used to align columns.

| Tables        | Are           | Cool  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
| col 3 is      | right-aligned | $1600 |
| col 2 is      | centered      |   $12 |
| zebra stripes | are neat      |    $1 |

Markdown | Less | Pretty
--- | --- | ---
*Still* | `renders` | **nicely**
1 | 2 | 3

| First Header  | Second Header |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| Content Cell  | Content Cell  |
| Content Cell  | Content Cell  |

| Command | Description |
| --- | --- |
| git status | List all new or modified files |
| git diff | Show file differences that haven't been staged |

| Command | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `git status` | List all *new or modified* files |
| `git diff` | Show file differences that **haven't been** staged |

| Left-aligned | Center-aligned | Right-aligned |
| :---         |     :---:      |          ---: |
| git status   | git status     | git status    |
| git diff     | git diff       | git diff      |

| Name     | Character |
| ---      | ---       |
| Backtick | `         |
| Pipe     | \|        |

---

Typographic replacements
========================

| Markdown       | Result       |
| -------------- | ------------ |
| `(tm)`         | ™            |
| `(c)`          | ©            |
| `(r)`          | ®            |
| `c/o`          | ℅            |
| `+/-`          | ±            |
| `-->`          | →            |
| `<--`          | ←            |
| `<-->`         | ↔            |
| `=/=`          | ≠            |
| `1/4, etc.`    | ¼, etc.      |
| `1st 2nd etc.` | 1st 2nd etc. |

---

Checklists
==========

- [ ] Task 1
- [x] Task 2
- [ ] **Look**, `i` *can* ^also^ ~~have~~ ++styling++
- [x] Buy bread

---

Footnotes
=========
This is enabled by the `remark-footnotes@2.0` extension.

Footnote 1 link[^first]  
Footnote 2 link[^second]  
Duplicated footnote reference[^second]

I am a very handsome boy^[citation&nbsp;needed]^

[^first]: Footnotes **can have markup**

    and multiple paragraphs.

[^second]: Footnote text.

---

Blockquotes
===========

> Blockquotes are very handy in email to emulate reply text.
> This line is part of the same quote.

Quote break.

> Blockquotes can also be nested...
>> ...by using additional greater-than signs right next to each other...
> > > ...or with spaces between arrows.
>
> > It can also have code blocks in them:
>
> ```python
> if __name__ == "__main__":
>   print("Hello, World!")
> ```

---

Code and Syntax Highlighting
============================
The code block functionality is provided by `shiki` which integrates directly with `MDsveX`.

<br>

#### Example CSS code
```css
@font-face {
    font-family: Chunkfive; src: url('Chunkfive.otf');
}

body, .usertext {
    color: #F0F0F0; background: #600;
    font-family: Chunkfive, sans;
}

@import url(print.css);
@media print {
    a[href^=http]::after {
        content: attr(href)
    }
}
```

#### Meta properties
Thanks to transformers from the `@shikijs/transformers` package, we can add special
features by passing meta properties to code blocks.

```markdown
\`\`\`js {1}
let a = "This code block will have highlighted lines";
\`\`\`

\`\`\`js /words/
let b = "This code block will have highlighted words";
\`\`\`

\`\`\`js
let b = "This code block will have highlighted words";  // [\!code --]
let c = "This code block will have highlighted diff changes";  // [\!code ++]
\`\`\`

\`\`\`js title="JavaScript sample"
let d = "This code block will have a title";
\`\`\`
```

Working example:
```js {2-4,7} /catch/ title="hello"
function $initHighlight(block, cls) {
    try {
        if (cls.search(/\bno\-highlight\b/) != -1)
            return process(block, true, 0x0F) +
                ` class="${cls}"`;
    } catch (e) {
        /* handle exception */
    }
    for (var i = 0 / 2; i < classes.length; i++) {
        if (checkCondition(classes[i]) === undefined)  // [!code ++]
            console.log('undefined'); // [!code --]
    }
}

export $initHighlight;
```

---

Images
======

Here's a logo (hover to see the title text):

Inline-style:
![alt text](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/raw/master/src/common/images/icon48.png "Logo Title Text 1")

Reference-style:
![alt text][logo]

[logo]: https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/raw/master/src/common/images/icon48.png "Logo Title Text 2"

![Kitten](https://loremflickr.com/640/360)
![Kitten](https://loremflickr.com/440/360 "A verry cute cat")

Like links, Images also have a footnote style syntax  
With a reference later in the document defining the URL location

![Alt text][id]

[id]: https://loremflickr.com/240/380  "Another totally bonkers cat"

Relative Images
----------------------

Thanks to a custom `assets/[slug]` route, which grabs all images living in the
posts directory and serves them under a single path, we can now prepend all nested
images in the same directory as the post with `/assets/`!

![puter with code on em](/assets/fotis-fotopoulos-DuHKoV44prg-unsplash.jpg "src: https://unsplash.com/photos/DuHKoV44prg")

You can use `.png`, `.jpg` or `.gif` files.

![cat licking camera](/assets/cta_lcik_camera.gif)
